Contact Lens Designs
Many lens designs are available to correct various types of vision problems:

Spherical contact lenses are the most common design. Spherical soft lenses correct nearsightedness and farsightedness. Spherical GP lenses can correct nearsightedness, farsightedness and astigmatism.
Toric lenses (soft and GP) have multiple lens powers to correct astigmatism.
Bifocal and multifocal contact lenses (soft and GP) contain different zones for near and far vision to correct presbyopia.
Orthokeratology GP lenses are specially designed to reshape the cornea during sleep, providing lens-free daytime wear.
GP lenses are specially designed to reshape the cornea during sleep, providing lens-free daytime wear.

More Contact Lens Features

Colored Lenses. Soft contact lenses are available in colors that can enhance the natural color of your eyes — to make your green eyes even greener, for example. Other colored soft lenses can change the color of your eyes entirely — from brown to blue, for example.

Multifocal & Bifocal contacts for astigmatism. These are advanced soft contacts that correct both presbyopia and astigmatism, so you can remain glasses-free after age 40 even if you have astigmatism.

Special-Effect Lenses. Also called theatrical, gothic, Halloween or costume lenses, these soft lenses take coloration one step further to make you look like a cat, a zombie, or another alter-ego of your choice.

Prosthetic Lenses. Colored contact lenses can also be used for more medically oriented purposes. People with disfigured eyes, as a result of accidents or disease, can use a custom-colored soft lens to mask the disfigurement and match the appearance of their normal eye.

Custom Lenses. If conventional contact lenses don't seem to work for you, you might be a candidate for custom contact lenses that are made-to-order for your individual eye shape and visual needs.

UV-inhibiting Lenses. Some soft contact lenses help protect your eyes from the sun's ultraviolet rays that can cause cataracts and other eye problems. But because contacts don't cover your entire eye, you still should wear UV-blocking sunglasses outdoors for the best protection from the sun.

Hybrid Lenses. One brand of lenses features a GP center with a soft outer skirt, providing wearers with both the crisp optics of a rigid lens and the comfort of a larger, soft lens.

Scleral Lenses. Large-diameter gas permeable lenses called scleral contact lenses are specially designed to treat keratoconus and other corneal irregularities, as well as presbyopia.

Myopia Control Contacts. Special contact lenses are being developed to slow or stop the progression of nearsightedness in children.